EBS (Elastic Block Storage)

1. This are the root volume  mean bootable volume a. SSD(GP2 & GP3 General Purpose) B. Provision IOPS (Io1 & io2 ) c. magnetic Standard 
2.  This is are non bootable volume (non root volume) a. Cold HDD SC1 B. Throughput Optimized (st1) 
3. 

Add Extra volume to Ec2 instance 

High-Level Steps

Create a new EBS volume (AZ must match EC2 AZ Availability Zone: same AZ as EC2)

Attach the volume to EC2 ( Device name: /dev/sdf (AWS name) )

Detect the disk in OS ( lsblk )

Create filesystem ( sudo mkfs -t ext4 /dev/xvdf )

Mount the volume ( sudo mkdir /data , sudo mount /dev/xvdf /data , df -h )

Make it persistent ( blkid /dev/xvdf (UUID will get) , sudo vi /etc/fstab , UUID="abc-123-xyz"  /data  ext4  defaults,nofail  0  2 )

test 

sudo mount -a

Done! Volume Added Successfully


Snapshot 

1. We can create the snapshot using existing the instance and volume as well
2. If volume is not encrypted then snapshot also will be non encrypted , 

Modify Permission:
If we want to change the permission of snapshot from private to public then we will change 
If we want to shared the snapshot to different AWS account then add the account ID and shared the will specific permission.


Copy Snapshot
3. If we want to encrypt the data from snapshot then we need to be the copy the snapshot (Click action button and select copy snapshot ) and select the encryption check, provide the encrytions  KMS key .
4. from one region to another region copy the snapshot.


Create Volume from snapshot

5. Click on actions button and select the create volume from snapshot
6. If we want to change the AZ for this volume, we can't change the region here.
7. we can change the volume type as well GP3, Gp2 ...etc
8. If we want enable the encryption of this new created volume then select encryption and provide the KMS key


Create Image(AMI) From snapshot

9. here we can able to select the volume type 
10. In the AMI this are the thing will included from snapshot
From the snapshot, the AMI includes everything stored on the EBS volume, such as:
Operating System (Linux/Windows)

Installed packages & software

nginx, apache, java, python, docker, etc.

Application code

Configuration files

/etc, /opt, /var, /usr/local

System users & groups

Environment variables (if stored in files)

Logs present at snapshot time

Cron jobs

Instance-Specific Information (NOT Included)

Instance ID

Public IP

Private IP

Elastic IP

Hostname (will be regenerated)

Instance state (running/stopped)
❌ AWS Resources (External)

IAM role attachment (role can be reattached later)

Security Groups

Key Pair

Auto Scaling Group config

Load Balancer attachment

CloudWatch alarms


AMI(Amazon Machine Image)

Launch Instance from AMI
Copy AMI( If we want to copy this AMI from one region to another then select the Destination Region name)
Edit AMI permissions ( If we want to change shared the this AMI to another AWS account or orgnasations OU then select this option)
Request Spot Instance ( if we want to create the spot instance the select this option)
